---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
subheadline: "From the Project Manager's corner"
title: "Printing Barcodes from FAIMS in China"
teaser: "Tao River Project is boosting their FAIMS module with new features in 2019"
categories:
  - News
author: adela
header:
    image_fullwidth: Harvardtrench.jpg
    caption: "Harvard graduate student Chengrui Zhang is recording a trench with FAIMS. " 
    


#
# Styling
#
---

The Tao River Archaeological Project in China has been using FAIMS for the last two years to record their excavation and sampling activities. Installing mobile apps on devices in China is not without its challenges, given the inaccessibility of Google (and therefore Play Store) in the country. With prior preparation, however, and great patience on the part of project director, Dr Rowan Flad, from Harvard University we have solved that issue. The adoption of digital medium is a challening task but the Tao River Archaeological Project is pressing forward inexorably. This year the team wants to connect their mobile app to a mobile barcode printer to facilitate the production of human- and machine-readable labels. We are expanding their FAIMS module to connect to a mobile Zebra printer over the Bluetooth and produce such labels at the push of a button using the existing digital record. All of the development is happening remotely, with our team in Sydney working with a Zebra printer kindly loaned by Gamma Solutions from Ryde, while Dr Flad supplies us with his requirements and will harness his own mobile printer after he finishes spring semester in Cambridge, Massachusetts. 
The success of deploying digital tools in the field depends on the upfront investment of project team into discovering their needs and testing the initial prototypes. The Tao River Project team has demonstrated that digital tools are a priority and the increasingly sophisticated module is a testimony to the successful co-development with FAIMS.